http://www.csun.edu/~hbsoc126/soc4/Chapter%2010%20Writing%20Assignment.pdf

# Project II

## Description
In this assignment, you will design a survey instrument revealing a latent construct in the population of interest. Furthermore, you will be feeding the construct to a model that tests the relationship between the construct with an independent or dependent variable of your choosing. In other words, you can flexibly use the latent construct to explain one target feature or as a dependent variable. For example, you might test the causal relationship between agreeableness and earnings or predict individual levels of agreeableness in adulthood from upbringing and parental background.

## Checklist
You will be turning the items below. Page limits must be within reason. You will want to use Microsoft Word or any text editor (e.g., Pages) or markup language (e.g., LateX) for the write-up. Adherence to the [APA style guidelines](https://apastyle.apa.org) is recommended.
- **Survey instrument** [25\%]. It has two parts.
    * *Latent construct*: questions used to score the respondents on the target latent construct.
    * *Supplementary information*: questions collecting information for your model.
- **Research plan** [75\%]. It has three parts.
    * [~25\%] *Background*: goal of research, introduction of latent construct, summary of literature.
    * [~25\%] *Validity*: survey description, discussion of validity (internal consistency, test-retest reliability, face validity, content validity, convergent validity, discriminant validity).
    * [~25\%] *Methodology*: null hypothesis, empirical model, internal and external validity, power analysis.

## Structure
 The construct might be behavioral (e.g., risk aversion), psychological (e.g., agreeableness), attitudinal (e.g., numeracy), or underpinning any other feature of your interest. You will be using the latent construct as either a dependent or an independent variable of analysis to include in a model jointly with the other other information collected in the survey.

### Survey Instrument
The first item in your checklist is the survey instrument. Some considerations that go into the grading: are you collecting all the necessary data? Are you avoiding collecting unnecessary data? Do the questions avoid framing effects? Are the questions clear and easy to understand?
Be concise, but make sure to comprehensively cover the different aspects of your construct. If you believe that risk aversion has a risk-tolerance and a risk-seeking component, you will need to cover these two. This discussion is hosted in the *Background* section of your **Research plan**.
The remainder of the questionnaire collects the demographics (e.g., sex, age, etc.), socioeconomics (e.g., income, wealth, etc.), educational features (e.g., highest degree attained, graduation major, etc.), and other individual characteristics that go into the empirical model.
You might use your latent construct in one or two ways: as the dependent variable of analysis – the one which you try to explain based on the covariates – or as an independent variable – which you use to infer the behavior of the respondents. Going back to the risk aversion example, one might use background information to predict differences in risk aversion or to infer policy preferences from risk aversion.  For example, individuals brought up in single-person households might be more risk-averse, and more risk averse individuals might have more progressive policy preferences. One thing to include is the coding of variables. If you collect an ethnicity variable, you must describe how the variable is operationalized. If it is categorical, state it and include the categories (e.g., white, black, etc.) 
The two parts of the survey, which shall be administered as one, are issued to the other participants in the class using Google Forms. Their scores allow you to calculate the Cronbach's alpha for internal consistency. You might download the questionnaire in Excel format and turn it in as your submission. Importantly, do not include survey responses – only the structure of the survey is of interest for grading – and make sure that respondents stay anonymous before, during, and after completion of the survey.

### Research plan
The **Research plan** plan starts from the research goal, and introduces the latent construct incorporating relevant literature. These elements should be all part of the *Background* section. The *Validity* section discusses the different aspects of validity presented in class. Clearly, you will need to wait until your responses are in before you can calculate the Cronbach's alpha; however, you should be able to write about the other aspects of validity without need to wait. Clearly, your content validity is reflected in your choice of questions and does not depend on responses.
The last component is the *Methodology*. This section states the null hypothesis drawn from prior literature or own thinking. Also, it outlines the empirical model that tests the null hypothesis. For example, you might plan to test sex-based differences in risk-aversion via difference-of-means or regression. Or, to validate the predictive power of risk aversion on the choice of college major. Please lay out the model clearly with the use of formulas. State the conditions under which the null hypothesis would test false.
Last, you must address power. The survey instrument that goes to the class members will likely be underpowered, but this is not what this subsection is about. You must define an ideal population that you would want to survey to conduct your research (e.g., 1,000 undergraduate students) and make sure that your experiment has enough power to test the null hypothesis. Clearly, a sample of 100 students is not  sufficient to test differences in risk aversion between men and women with different levels of education and parental background. This is because you have too many degrees of freedom (p = 10 or more) and too small of a sample (n = 100). Describe your choice of control covariates and stratification. This is preferably done using power analysis formulas, but it can be done informally. In essence, you will have to argue that your research plan is feasible and not delusional.

## Fair Collaboration
Teams complement the submission with a note breaking down the individual contributions (e.g., student A did X; student B did Y, etc.). The note should also state that "each team member has contributed fairly to the group project" and must go in a footnote or in a *Collaboration* section at the end of the file. This will not count towards the word limit. If contribution has not been fair or balanced, this must be written in place of the fair collaboration clause.
Some students are better at writing and some other students are better at coding or at doing math. This is totally fine. What matters is that everyone contributes her fair share to the project, where the threshold for "fair" has to be agreed upon by the team members. If collaboration falls apart or some team members push the "fair" threshold a little bit too hard, teams should reach to the instructor immediately.