%http://www.csun.edu/~hbsoc126/soc4/Chapter%2010%20Writing%20Assignment.pdf
# Project II

## Description
In this assignment, you will design a survey instrument picking up on a latent construct in a target population (e.g., agreeableness in adulthood). You will be proposing a research design that links the latent construct to an independent or dependent variable. Alternatively, you will use the latent construct to explain one target feature or as the dependent variable which is predicted by some other features. For example, you might test the causal relationship between agreeableness and earnings (i.e., do more agreeable people earn more?) or predict agreeableness in adulthood from parental background (i.e., does better parenting lead to more agreeable personality traits?). **Note that you need to sketch the research plan, not conduct it!**

## Checklist
You will be turning the items below with page limits within reason. Adherence to the [APA style guidelines](https://apastyle.apa.org) is recommended.
- **Survey instrument** [25\%]. It has two parts, which you will typically turn in into an Excel spreadsheet.
    * *Latent construct*: questions used to score the respondents on the latent construct.
    * *Supplementary information*: questions used to answer the causal question.
- **Research plan** [75\%]. It has three parts, which you will tun in into a text document. You will want to use Microsoft Word or any text editor (e.g., Pages) or markup language (e.g., LateX) for the write-up.
    * [~25\%] *Background*: goal of research, introduction of latent construct, summary of literature.
    * [~25\%] *Validity*: survey description, discussion of validity (internal consistency, test-retest reliability, face validity, content validity, convergent validity, discriminant validity).
    * [~25\%] *Methodology*: null hypothesis, empirical model, internal and external validity, power analysis.

## Structure
The construct might be behavioral (e.g., risk aversion), psychological (e.g., agreeableness), attitudinal (e.g., intrinsic motivation), cognitive (e.g., numeracy). The research design uses the latent construct to answer one causal question with the other other information collected in the survey.

### Survey Instrument
The first item in your checklist is the survey instrument. Some considerations that go into the grading are: are you collecting all the necessary data? Are you avoiding collecting unnecessary data? Do the questions avoid framing effects? Are the questions clear and easy to understand?
Be concise, but make sure to comprehensively cover the different aspects of your construct. If you believe that risk aversion has a risk-tolerance and a risk-seeking component, include both. This discussion is hosted in the *Background* section of your **Research plan**.  
The remainder of the questionnaire collects the demographics (e.g., sex, age, etc.), socioeconomics (e.g., income, wealth, etc.), educational features (e.g., highest degree attained, graduation major, etc.), and other individual characteristics for your research design. You might use your latent construct in one of two ways: as the dependent variable of analysis – the one which you try to explain – or as an independent variable – which you use to infer behavior, attitudes, or outcomes. Going back to the risk aversion example, one might use background information to predict differences in risk aversion or to infer policy preferences from risk aversion. Individuals brought up in single-person households might be more risk-averse, and more risk averse individuals might have more progressive policy preferences. One thing to include is the coding of variables; if you collect an ethnicity variable, you must describe how the variable is operationalized. If it is categorical, state it and include the categories (e.g., white, black, etc.) 
The two parts of the survey, which shall be administered as one, are issued to the other participants in the class using Google Forms. Their scores allow you to calculate the Cronbach's alpha and test internal consistency. You might download the questionnaire in Excel format and turn them in as your survey instrument submission. Importantly, do not include survey responses and make sure that respondents stay anonymous before, during, and after completion of the survey.

### Research plan
The **Research plan** plan states the research goal, and introduces the latent construct incorporating relevant literature. These should be all part of the *Background* section. Next, the *Validity* section discusses the different aspects of validity presented in class. Clearly, you will need to wait until your responses are in before calculating the Cronbach's alpha. However, you should be able to write about the other aspects of validity without having to wait.  
The last component is the *Methodology*. This section states the null hypothesis drawn from prior literature or own thinking and outlines the research design testing it. You might plan to test sex-based differences in risk-aversion via difference-of-means or regression. Or, you might plan to validate the predictive power of risk aversion on college major. Please lay out the research plan clearly with the use of formulas. State the conditions under which the null hypothesis would test false.  
Last, you must address power. The survey instrument that goes to the class members will likely be underpowered, but this is not what this subsection is about. You must define an ideal population that you would want to survey (e.g., 1,000 undergraduate students) and make sure that your experiment has enough power to test the null hypothesis on this population. Clearly, a sample of 100 students is not  sufficient to test differences in risk aversion between men and women with different levels of education and parental background. There are way too many degrees of freedom (p = 10 or more) and the sample is way too sample (n = 100). Describe your choice of control covariates and stratification. This is preferably done using power analysis formulas, but it can be done informally. In essence, you will have to argue that your research plan is feasible and not delusional.

## Fair Collaboration
Teams complement the submission with a note breaking down the individual contributions (e.g., student A did X; student B did Y, etc.). The note should also state that "each team member has contributed fairly to the group project" and must go in a footnote or in a *Collaboration* section at the end of the file. This will not count towards the word limit. If contribution has not been fair or balanced, this must be written in place of the fair collaboration clause.
Some students are better at writing and some other students are better at coding or at doing math. This is totally fine. What matters is that everyone contributes her fair share to the project, where the threshold for "fair" has to be agreed upon by the team members. If collaboration falls apart or some team members push the "fair" threshold a little bit too hard, teams should reach to the instructor immediately.